Why are cats so weird?
Why do cats do that?
They're cute, they're lovable, and judging by the 26 billions views of over 2 million YouTube videos of them pouncing, bouncing, climbing, cramming, stalking, clawing, chattering, and purring, one thing is certain: cats are very entertaining. 
These somewhat strange feline behaviors, both amusing and baffling, leave many of us asking, "Why do cats do that?"
Throughout time, cats were simultaneously solitary predators of smaller animals and prey for larger carnivores. 
As both predator and prey, survival of their species depended on crucial instinctual behaviors which we still observe in wild and domestic cats today. 
While the feline actions of your house cat Grizmo might seem perplexing, in the wild, these same behaviors, naturally bred into cats for millions of years, would make Grizmo a super cat.
Enabled by their unique muscular structure and keen balancing abilities, cats climbed to high vantage points to survey their territory and spot prey in the wild. 
Grizmo doesn't need these particular skills to find and hunt down dinner in her food bowl today, but instinctually, viewing the living room from the top of the bookcase is exactly what she has evolved to do.
As wild predators, cats are opportunistic and hunt whenever prey is available. 
Since most cat prey are small, cats in the wild needed to eat many times each day, and use a stalk, pounce, kill, eat strategy to stay fed. 
This is why Grizmo prefers to chase and pounce on little toys and eat small meals over the course of the day and night. 
Also, small prey tend to hide in tiny spaces in their natural environments, so one explanation for Grizmo's propensity to reach into containers and openings is that she is compelled by the same curiosity that helped ensure the continuation of her species for millions of years before.
In the wild, cats needed sharp claws for climbing, hunting, and self-defense. 
Sharpening their claws on nearby surfaces kept them conditioned and ready, helped stretch their back and leg muscles, and relieve some stress, too. 
So, it's not that Grizmo hates your couch, chair, ottoman, pillows, curtains, and everything else you put in her environment. 
She's ripping these things to shreds and keeping her claws in tip-top shape because this is exactly what her ancestors did in order to survive.
As animals that were preyed upon, cats evolved to not get caught, and in the wild, the cats that were the best at avoiding predators thrived. 
So at your house today, Grizmo is an expert at squeezing into small spaces and seeking out and hiding in unconventional spots. 
It also explains why she prefers a clean and odor-free litter box. 
That's less likely to give away her location to any predators that may be sniffing around nearby.
Considering everything we do know about cats, it seems that one of their most predominate behaviors is still one of the most mysterious. 
Cats may purr for any number of reasons, such as happiness, stress, and hunger. 
But curiously, the frequency of their purrs, between 25 and 150 hertz, is within a range that can promote tissue regeneration. 
So while her purring makes Grizmo an excellent nap companion, it is also possible that her purr is healing her muscles and bones, and maybe even yours, too.
They developed through time as both solitary predators that hunted and killed to eat, and stealthy prey that hid and escaped to survive. 
So cats today retain many of the same instincts that allowed them to thrive in the wild for millions of years. 
This explains some of their seemingly strange behaviors. 
To them, our homes are their jungles. 
But if this is the case, in our own cat's eyes, who are we? Big, dumb, hairless cats competing with them for resources? 
Terribly stupid predators they're able to outsmart every day? 
Or maybe they think we're the prey.



The science of skin color
When ultraviolet sunlight hits our skin, it affects each of us a little differently. 
Depending on skin color, it will take only minutes of exposure to turn one person beetroot-pink, while another requires hours to experience the slightest change. 
So what's to account for that difference and how did our skin come to take on so many different hues to begin with?
Whatever the color, our skin tells an epic tale of human intrepidness and adaptability, revealing its variance to be a function of biology. 
It all centers around melanin, the pigment that gives skin and hair its color. 
This ingredient comes from skin cells called melanocytes and takes two basic forms. 
There's eumelanin, which gives rise to a range of brown skin tones, as well as black, brown, and blond hair, and pheomelanin, which causes the reddish browns of freckles and red hair. 
But humans weren't always like this. 
Our varying skin tones were formed by an evolutionary process driven by the Sun. 
In began some 50,000 years ago when our ancestors migrated north from Africa and into Europe and Asia.
These ancient humans lived between the Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn, a region saturated by the Sun's UV-carrying rays. 
When skin is exposed to UV for long periods of time, the UV light damages the DNA within our cells, and skin starts to burn. 
If that damage is severe enough, the cells mutations can lead to melanoma, a deadly cancer that forms in the skin's melanocytes.
Sunscreen as we know it today didn't exist 50,000 years ago. 
So how did our ancestors cope with this onslaught of UV? 
The key to survival lay in their own personal sunscreen manufactured beneath the skin: melanin.
The type and amount of melanin in your skin determines whether you'll be more or less protected from the sun. 
This comes down to the skin's response as sunlight strikes it. 
When it's exposed to UV light, that triggers special light-sensitive receptors called rhodopsin, which stimulate the production of melanin to shield cells from damage. 
For light-skin people, that extra melanin darkens their skin and produces a tan.
Over the course of generations, humans living at the Sun-saturated latitudes in Africa adapted to have a higher melanin production threshold and more eumelanin, giving skin a darker tone. 
This built-in sun shield helped protect them from melanoma, likely making them evolutionarily fitter and capable of passing this useful trait on to new generations.
But soon, some of our Sun-adapted ancestors migrated northward out of the tropical zone, spreading far and wide across the Earth. 
The further north they traveled, the less direct sunshine they saw. 
This was a problem because although UV light can damage skin, it also has an important parallel benefit. 
UV helps our bodies produce vitamin D, an ingredient that strengthens bones and lets us absorb vital minerals, like calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphate, and zinc. 
Without it, humans experience serious fatigue and weakened bones that can cause a condition known as rickets.
For humans whose dark skin effectively blocked whatever sunlight there was, vitamin D deficiency would have posed a serious threat in the north. 
But some of them happened to produce less melanin. 
They were exposed to small enough amounts of light that melanoma was less likely, and their lighter skin better absorbed the UV light. 
So they benefited from vitamin D, developed strong bones, and survived well enough to produce healthy offspring. 
Over many generations of selection, skin color in those regions gradually lightened.
As a result of our ancestor's adaptability, today the planet is full of people with a vast palette of skin colors, typically, darker eumelanin-rich skin in the hot, sunny band around the Equator, and increasingly lighter pheomelanin-rich skin shades fanning outwards as the sunshine dwindles.
Therefore, skin color is little more than an adaptive trait for living on a rock that orbits the Sun. It may absorb light, but it certainly does not reflect character.



How playing an instrument benefits your brain
Did you know that every time musicians pick up their instruments, there are fireworks going off all over their brain?
On the outside, they may look calm and focused, reading the music and making the precise and practiced movements required. 
But inside their brains, there&apos;s a party going on. 
How do we know this? 
Well, in the last few decades, neuroscientists have made enormous breakthroughs in understanding how our brains work by monitoring them in real time with instruments like fMRI and PET scanners. 
When people are hooked up to these machines, tasks, such as reading or doing math problems, each have corresponding areas of the brain where activity can be observed. 
But when researchers got the participants to listen to music, they saw fireworks. 
Multiple areas of their brains were lighting up at once, as they processed the sound, took it apart to understand elements like melody and rhythm, and then put it all back together into unified musical experience. 
And our brains do all this work in the split second between when we first hear the music and when our foot starts to tap along. 
But when scientists turned from observing the brains of music listeners to those of musicians, the little backyard fireworks became a jubilee. 
It turns out that while listening to music engages the brain in some pretty interesting activities, playing music is the brain&apos;s equivalent of a full-body workout. 
The neuroscientists saw multiple areas of the brain light up, simultaneously processing different information in intricate, interrelated, and astonishingly fast sequences. 
But what is it about making music that sets the brain alight? 
The research is still fairly new, but neuroscientists have a pretty good idea. 
Playing a musical instrument engages practically every area of the brain at once, especially the visual, auditory, and motor cortices. 
As with any other workout, disciplined, structured practice in playing music strengthens those brain functions, allowing us to apply that strength to other activities. 
The most obvious difference between listening to music and playing it is that the latter requires fine motor skills, which are controlled in both hemispheres of the brain. 
It also combines the linguistic and mathematical precision, in which the left hemisphere is more involved, with the novel and creative content that the right excels in. 
For these reasons, playing music has been found to increase the volume and activity in the brain&apos;s corpus callosum, the bridge between the two hemispheres, allowing messages to get across the brain faster and through more diverse routes. 
This may allow musicians to solve problems more effectively and creatively, in both academic and social settings. 
Because making music also involves crafting and understanding its emotional content and message, musicians often have higher levels of executive function, a category of interlinked tasks that includes planning, strategizing, and attention to detail and requires simultaneous analysis of both cognitive and emotional aspects. 
This ability also has an impact on how our memory systems work. 
And, indeed, musicians exhibit enhanced memory functions, creating, storing, and retrieving memories more quickly and efficiently. 
Studies have found that musicians appear to use their highly connected brains to give each memory multiple tags, such as a conceptual tag, an emotional tag, an audio tag, and a contextual tag, like a good Internet search engine. 
How do we know that all these benefits are unique to music, as opposed to, say, sports or painting? 
Or could it be that people who go into music were already smarter to begin with? 
Neuroscientists have explored these issues, but so far, they have found that the artistic and aesthetic aspects of learning to play a musical instrument are different from any other activity studied, including other arts. 
And several randomized studies of participants, who showed the same levels of cognitive function and neural processing at the start, found that those who were exposed to a period of music learning showed enhancement in multiple brain areas, compared to the others. 
This recent research about the mental benefits of playing music has advanced our understanding of mental function, revealing the inner rhythms and complex interplay that make up the amazing orchestra of our brain.



The physics of the "hardest move" in ballet
In the third act of &quot;Swan Lake,&quot; the Black Swan pulls off a seemingly endless series of turns, bobbing up and down on one pointed foot and spinning around, and around, and around 32 times. 
It&apos;s one of the toughest sequences in ballet, and for those thirty seconds or so, she&apos;s like a human top in perpetual motion. 
Those spectacular turns are called fouettés, which means &quot;whipped&quot; in French, describing the dancer&apos;s incredible ability to whip around without stopping. 
But while we&apos;re marveling at the fouetté, can we unravel its physics? 
The dancer starts the fouetté by pushing off with her foot to generate torque. 
But the hard part is maintaining the rotation. As she turns, friction between her pointe shoe and the floor, and somewhat between her body and the air, reduces her momentum. 
So how does she keep turning? 
Between each turn, the dancer pauses for a split second and faces the audience. 
Her supporting foot flattens, and then twists as it rises back onto pointe, pushing against the floor to generate a tiny amount of new torque. 
At the same time, her arms sweep open to help her keep her balance. 
The turns are most effective if her center of gravity stays constant, and a skilled dancer will be able to keep her turning axis vertical. 
The extended arms and torque-generating foot both help drive the fouetté. 
But the real secret and the reason you hardly notice the pause is that her other leg never stops moving. 
During her momentary pause, the dancer&apos;s elevated leg straightens and moves from the front to the side, before it folds back into her knee. 
By staying in motion, that leg is storing some of the momentum of the turn. 
When the leg comes back in towards the body, that stored momentum gets transferred back to the dancer&apos;s body, propelling her around as she rises back onto pointe. 
As the ballerina extends and retracts her leg with each turn, momentum travels back and forth between leg and body, keeping her in motion. 
A really good ballerina can get more than one turn out of every leg extension in one of two ways. 
First, she can extend her leg sooner. 
The longer the leg is extended, the more momentum it stores, and the more momentum it can return to the body when it&apos;s pulled back in. 
More angular momentum means she can make more turns before needing to replenish what was lost to friction. 
The other option is for the dancer to bring her arms or leg in closer to her body once she returns to pointe. 
Why does this work? 
Like every other turn in ballet, the fouetté is governed by angular momentum, which is equal to the dancer&apos;s angular velocity times her rotational inertia. 
And except for what&apos;s lost to friction, that angular momentum has to stay constant while the dancer is on pointe. 
That&apos;s called conservation of angular momentum. 
Now, rotational inertia can be thought of as a body&apos;s resistance to rotational motion. 
It increases when more mass is distributed further from the axis of rotation, and decreases when the mass is distributed closer to the axis of rotation. 
So as she brings her arms closer to her body, her rotational inertia shrinks. 
In order to conserve angular momentum, her angular velocity, the speed of her turn, has to increase, allowing the same amount of stored momentum to carry her through multiple turns. 
You&apos;ve probably seen ice skaters do the same thing, spinning faster and faster by drawing in their arms and legs. 
In Tchaikovsky&apos;s ballet, the Black Swan is a sorceress, and her 32 captivating fouettés do seem almost supernatural. 
But it&apos;s not magic that  makes them possible. 
It&apos;s physics.



What would happen if you didn't sleep?
In 1965, 17-year-old high school student, Randy Gardner stayed awake for 264 hours. 
That&apos;s 11 days to see how he&apos;d cope without sleep. On the second day, his eyes stopped focusing. 
Next, he lost the ability to identify objects by touch. 
By day three, Gardner was moody and uncoordinated. 
At the end of the experiment, he was struggling to concentrate, had trouble with short-term memory, became paranoid, and started hallucinating. 
Although Gardner recovered without long-term psychological or physical damage, for others, losing shuteye can result in hormonal imbalance, illness, and, in extreme cases, death. 
We&apos;re only beginning to understand why we sleep to begin with, but we do know it&apos;s essential. 
Adults need seven to eight hours of sleep a night, and adolescents need about ten. 
We grow sleepy due to signals from our body telling our brain we are tired, and signals from the environment telling us it&apos;s dark outside. 
The rise in sleep-inducing chemicals, like adenosine and melatonin, send us into a light doze that grows deeper, making our breathing and heart rate slow down and our muscles relax. 
This non-REM sleep is when DNA is repaired and our bodies replenish themselves for the day ahead. 
In the United States, it&apos;s estimated that 30% of adults and 66% of adolescents are regularly sleep-deprived. 
This isn&apos;t just a minor inconvenience. 
Staying awake can cause serious bodily harm. 
When we lose sleep, learning, memory, mood, and reaction time are affected. 
Sleeplessness may also cause inflammation, halluciations, high blood pressure, and it&apos;s even been linked to diabetes and obesity. 
In 2014, a devoted soccer fan died after staying awake for 48 hours to watch the World Cup. 
While his untimely death was due to a stroke, studies show that chronically sleeping fewer than six hours a night increases stroke risk by four and half times compared to those getting a consistent seven to eight hours of shuteye. 
For a handful of people on the planet who carry a rare inherited genetic mutation, sleeplessness is a daily reality. 
This condition, known as Fatal Familial Insomnia, places the body in a nightmarish state of wakefulness, forbidding it from entering the sanctuary of sleep. 
Within months or years, this progressively worsening condition leads to dementia and death. 
How can sleep deprivation cause such immense suffering? 
Scientists think the answer lies with the accumulation of waste prducts in the brain. 
During our waking hours, our cells are busy using up our day&apos;s energy sources, which get broken down into various byproducts, including adenosine. 
As adenosine builds up, it increases the urge to sleep, also known as sleep pressure. 
In fact, caffeine works by blocking adenosine&apos;s receptor pathways. 
Other waste products also build up in the brain, and if they&apos;re not cleared away, they collectively overload the brain and are thought to lead to the many negative symptoms of sleep deprivation. 
So, what&apos;s happening in our brain when we sleep to prevent this? 
Scientists found something called the glymphatic system, a clean-up mechanism that removes this buildup and is much more active when we&apos;re asleep. 
It works by using cerebrospinal fluid to flush away toxic byproducts that accumulate between cells. 
Lymphatic vessels, which serve as pathways for immune cells, have recently been discovered in the brain, and they may also play a role in clearing out the brain&apos;s daily waste products. 
While scientists continue exploring the restorative mechanisms behind sleep, we can be sure that slipping into slumber is a necessity if we want to maintain our health and our sanity.



Why should you listen to Vivaldi's "Four Seasons"?
Light, bright, and cheerful. 
It&apos;s some of the most familiar of all early 18th century music. 
It&apos;s been featured in uncounted films and television commercials, but what is it and why does it sound that way? 
This is the opening of &quot;Spring&quot; from &quot;The Four Seasons,&quot; by Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi. 
&quot;The Four Seasons&quot; are famous in part because they are a delight to the ear. However, even more notable is the fact that they have stories to tell. 
At the time of their publication in Amsterdam in 1725, they were accompanied by poems describing exactly what feature of that season Vivaldi intended to capture in musical terms. 
In providing specific plot content for instrumental music, Vivaldi was generations ahead of his time. 
If one were to read the poems simultaneously to hearing the music, one would find the poetic scenes synchronizing nicely with the musical imagery. 
We are told that the birds welcome spring with happy song, and here they are doing exactly that. 
Soon, however, a thunderstorm breaks out. 
Not only is there musical thunder and lightning, there are also more birds, wet, frightened, and unhappy. 
In &quot;Summer,&quot; the turtle dove sings her name &quot;tortorella&quot; in Italian, before a hail storm flattens the fields. 
&quot;Autumn&quot; brings eager hunters dashing out in pursuit of their prey. 
The &quot;Winter&quot; concerto begins with teeth chattering in the cold before one takes refuge by a crackling fire. 
Then it&apos;s back out into the storm where there&apos;ll be slips and falls on the ice. 
In these first weeks of winter, the old year is coming to a close, and so does Vivaldi&apos;s musical exploration of the seasons. 
Not until the early 19th century would such expressive instrumental program music, as it was known, become popular. 
By then, larger, more varied ensembles were the rule with woodwinds, brass, and percussion to help tell the tale. 
But Vivaldi pulled it off with just one violin, strings, and a harpsichord. 
Unlike his contemporary Bach, Vivaldi wasn&apos;t much interested in complicated fugues. 
He preferred to offer readily accessible entertainment to his listeners with melodies that pop back up later in a piece to remind us of where we&apos;ve been. 
So the first movement of the &quot;Spring&quot; concerto begins with a theme for spring and ends with it, too, slightly varied from when it was last heard. 
It was an inspired way to attract listeners, and Vivaldi, considered one of the most electrifying violinists of the early 18th century, understood the value of attracting audiences. 
Such concerts might feature himself as the star violinist. Others presented the young musicians of the Pietà, a Venetian girls&apos; school where Vivaldi was Director of Music. 
Most of the students were orphans. Music training was intended not only as social skills suitable for young ladies but also as potential careers for those who might fail to make good marriages. 
Even in the composer&apos;s own time, Vivaldi&apos;s music served as diversion for all, not just for the wealthy aristocrats. 
300 years later, it&apos;s an approach that still works, and Vivaldi&apos;s music still sounds like trotting horses on the move.



What gives a dollar bill its value?
If you tried to pay for something with a piece of paper, you might run into some trouble. 
Unless, of course, the piece of paper was a hundred dollar bill. 
But what is it that makes that bill so much more interesting and valuable than other pieces of paper? 
After all, there&apos;s not much you can do with it. 
You can&apos;t eat it. 
You can&apos;t build things with it. 
And burning it is actually illegal. 
So what&apos;s the big deal? Of course, you probably know the answer. 
A hundred dollar bill is printed by the government and designated as official currency, while other pieces of paper are not. 
But that&apos;s just what makes them legal. 
What makes a hundred dollar bill valuable, on the other hand, is how many or few of them are around. 
Throughout history, most currency, including the US dollar, was linked to valuable commodities and the amount of it in circulation depended on a government&apos;s gold or silver reserves. 
But after the US abolished this system in 1971, the dollar became what is known as fiat money, meaning not linked to any external resource but relying instead solely on government policy to decide how much currency to print. 
Which branch of our government sets this policy? 
The Executive, the Legislative, or the Judicial? 
The surprising answer is: none of the above! 
In fact, monetary policy is set by an independent Federal Reserve System, or the Fed, made up of 12 regional banks in major cities around the country. 
Its board of governors, which is appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, reports to Congress, and all the Fed&apos;s profit goes into the US Treasury. 
But to keep the Fed from being influenced by the day-to-day vicissitudes of politics, it is not under the direct control of any branch of government. 
Why doesn&apos;t the Fed just decide to print infinite hundred dollar bills to make everyone happy and rich? Well, because then the bills wouldn&apos;t be worth anything. 
Think about the purpose of currency, which is to be exchanged for goods and services. 
If the total amount of currency in circulation increases faster than the total value of goods and services in the economy, then each individual piece will be able to buy a smaller portion of those things than before. 
This is called inflation. 
On the other hand, if the money supply remains the same, while more goods and services are produced, each dollar&apos;s value would increase in a process known as deflation. 
So which is worse? 
Too much inflation means that the money in your wallet today will be worth less tomorrow, making you want to spend it right away. 
While this would stimulate business, it would also encourage overconsumption, or hoarding commodities, like food and fuel, raising their prices and leading to consumer shortages and even more inflation. 
But deflation would make people want to hold onto their money, and a decrease in consumer spending would reduce business profits, leading to more unemployment and a further decrease in spending, causing the economy to keep shrinking. 
So most economists believe that while too much of either is dangerous, a small, consistent amount of inflation is necessary to encourage economic growth. 
The Fed uses vast amounts of economic data to determine how much currency should be in circulation, including previous rates of inflation, international trends, and the unemployment rate. 
Like in the story of Goldilocks, they need to get the numbers just right in order to stimulate growth and keep people employed, without letting inflation reach disruptive levels. 
The Fed not only determines how much that paper in your wallet is worth but also your chances of getting or keeping the job where you earn it.



Would you sacrifice one person to save five?
Imagine you&apos;re watching a runaway trolley barreling down the tracks straight towards five workers who can&apos;t escape. 
You happen to be standing next to a switch that will divert the trolley onto a second track. 
Here&apos;s the problem. 
That track has a worker on it, too, but just one. 
What do you do? 
Do you sacrifice one person to save five? 
This is the trolley problem, a version of an ethical dilemma that philosopher Philippa Foot devised in 1967. 
It&apos;s popular because it forces us to think about how to choose when there are no good choices. 
Do we pick the action with the best outcome or stick to a moral code that prohibits causing someone&apos;s death? 
In one survey, about 90% of respondents said that it&apos;s okay to flip the switch, letting one worker die to save five, and other studies, including a virtual reality simulation of the dilemma, have found similar results. 
These judgments are consistent with the philosophical principle of utilitarianism which argues that the morally correct decision is the one that maximizes well-being for the greatest number of people. 
The five lives outweigh one, even if achieving that outcome requires condemning someone to death. 
But people don&apos;t always take the utilitarian view, which we can see by changing the trolley problem a bit. 
This time, you&apos;re standing on a bridge over the track as the runaway trolley approaches. 
Now there&apos;s no second track, but there is a very large man  on the bridge next to you. 
If you push him over, his body will stop the trolley, saving the five workers, but he&apos;ll die. 
To utilitarians, the decision is exactly the same, lose one life to save five. 
But in this case, only about 10% of people say that it&apos;s OK to throw the man onto the tracks. 
Our instincts tell us that deliberately causing someone&apos;s death is different than allowing them to die as collateral damage. 
It just feels wrong for reasons that are hard to explain. 
This intersection between ethics and psychology is what&apos;s so interesting about the trolley problem. 
The dilemma in its many variations reveal that what we think is right or wrong depends on factors other than a logical weighing of the pros and cons. 
For example, men are more likely than women to say it&apos;s okay to push the man over the bridge. 
So are people who watch a comedy clip before doing the thought experiment. 
And in one virtual reality study, people were more willing to sacrifice men than women. 
Researchers have studied the brain activity of people thinking through the classic and bridge versions. 
Both scenarios activate areas of the brain involved in conscious decision-making and emotional responses. 
But in the bridge version, the emotional response is much stronger. 
So is activity in an area of the brain associated with processing internal conflict. 
Why the difference? 
One explanation is that pushing someone to their death feels more personal, activating an emotional aversion to killing another person, but we feel conflicted because we know it&apos;s still the logical choice. 
&quot;Trolleyology&quot; has been criticized by some philosophers and psychologists. 
They argue that it doesn&apos;t reveal anything because its premise is so unrealistic that study participants don&apos;t take it seriously. 
But new technology is making this kind of ethical analysis more important than ever. 
For example, driver-less cars  may have to handle choices like causing a small accident to prevent a larger one. 
Meanwhile, governments are researching autonomous military drones that could wind up making decisions of whether they&apos;ll risk civilian casualties to attack a high-value target. 
If we want these actions to be ethical, we have to decide in advance how to value human life and judge the greater good. 
So researchers who study autonomous systems are collaborating with philosophers to address the complex problem of programming ethics into machines, which goes to show that even hypothetical dilemmas can wind up on a collision course with the real world.



What really happens to the plastic you throw away?
This is the story of three plastic bottles, empty and discarded. 
Their journeys are about to diverge with outcomes that impact nothing less than the fate of the planet. 
But they weren&apos;t always this way. 
To understand where these bottles end up, we must first explore their origins. 
The heroes of our story were conceived in this oil refinery.
The plastic in their bodies was formed by chemically bonding oil and gas molecules together to make monomers. 
In turn, these monomers were bonded into long polymer chains to make plastic in the form of millions of pellets. 
Those were melted at manufacturing plants and reformed in molds to create the resilient material that makes up the triplets&apos; bodies. 
Machines filled the bottles with sweet bubbily liquid and they were then wrapped, shipped, bought, opened, consumed and unceremoniously discarded. 
And now here they lie, poised at the edge of the unknown. Bottle one, like hundreds of millions of tons of his plastic brethren, ends up in a landfill. 
This huge dump expands each day as more trash comes in and continues to take up space. 
As plastics sit there being compressed amongst layers of other junk, rainwater flows through the waste and absorbs the water-soluble compounds it contains, and some of those are highly toxic. 
Together, they create a harmful stew called leachate, which can move into groundwater, soil and streams, poisoning ecosystems and harming wildlife. It can take bottle one an agonizing 1,000 years to decompose. 
Bottle two&apos;s journey is stranger but, unfortunately, no happier. 
He floats on a trickle that reaches a stream, a stream that flows into a river, and a river that reaches the ocean. 
After months lost at sea, he&apos;s slowly drawn into a massive vortex, where trash accumulates, a place known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. 
Here the ocean&apos;s currents have trapped millions of pieces of plastic debris. 
This is one of five plastic-filled gyres in the world&apos;s seas. 
Places where the pollutants turn the water into a cloudy plastic soup. Some animals, like seabirds, get entangled in the mess. 
They, and others, mistake the brightly colored plastic bits for food. 
Plastic makes them feel full when they&apos;re not, so they starve to death and pass the toxins from the plastic up the food chain. 
For example, it&apos;s eaten by lanternfish, the lanternfish are eaten by squid, the squid are eaten by tuna, and the tuna are eaten by us. 
And most plastics don&apos;t biodegrade, which means they&apos;re destined to break down into smaller and smaller pieces called micro plastics, which might rotate in the sea eternally. 
But bottle three is spared the cruel purgatories of his brothers. 
A truck brings him to a plant where he and his companions are squeezed flat and compressed into a block. 
Okay, this sounds pretty bad, too, but hang in there. It gets better. 
The blocks are shredded into tiny pieces, which are washed and melted, so they become the raw materials that can be used again. 
As if by magic, bottle three is now ready to be reborn as something completely new. 
For this bit of plastic with such humble origins, suddenly the sky is the limit.



How to understand power
Every day of your life, you move through systems of power that other people made. 
Do you sense them? 
Do you understand power?
Do you realize why it matters?
Power is something we are often uncomfortable talking about.
That&apos;s especially true in civic life, how we live together in community. 
In a democracy, power is supposed to reside with the people, period. 
Any further talk about power and who really has it seems a little dirty, maybe even evil. 
But power is no more inherently good or evil than fire or physics. 
It just is. 
It governs how any form of government works. 
It determines who gets to determine the rules of the game. 
So learning how power operates is key to being effective, being taken seriously, and not being taken advantage of. 
In this lesson, we&apos;ll look at where power comes from, how it&apos;s exercised and what you can do to become more powerful in public life. 
Let&apos;s start with a basic definition. 
Power is the ability to make others do what you would have them do. 
Of course, this plays out in all arenas of life, from family to the workplace to our relationships. 
Our focus is on the civic arena, where power means getting a community to make the choices and to take the actions that you want. 
There are six main sources of civic power. 
First, there&apos;s physical force and a capacity for violence. 
Control of the means of force, whether in the police or a militia, is power at its most primal. 
A second core source  of power is wealth. 
Money creates the ability to buy results and to buy almost any other kind of power. 
The third form of power is state action, government. 
This is the use of law and bureaucracy to compel people to do or not do certain things. 
In a democracy, for example, we the people, theoretically, give government its power through elections. 
In a dictatorship, state power emerges from the threat of force, not the consent of the governed. 
The fourth type of power is social norms or what other people think is okay. 
Norms don&apos;t have the centralized machinery of government. 
They operate in a softer way, peer to peer. 
They can certainly make people change behavior and even change laws. 
Think about how norms around marriage equality today are evolving. 
The fifth form of power is ideas. 
An idea, individual liberties, say, or racial equality, can generate boundless amounts of power if it motivates enough people to change their thinking and actions. 
And so the sixth source of power is numbers, lots of humans. 
A vocal mass of people creates power by expressing collective intensity of interest and by asserting legitimacy. 
Think of the Arab Spring or the rise of the Tea Party. 
Crowds count. 
These are the six main sources of power, what power is. 
So now, let&apos;s think about how power operates. 
There are three laws of power worth examining. 
Law number one: power is never static. 
It&apos;s always either accumulating or decaying in a civic arena. 
So if you aren&apos;t taking action, you&apos;re being acted upon. 
Law number two: power is like water. 
It flows like a current through everyday life. 
Politics is the work of harnessing that flow in a direction you prefer. 
Policymaking is an effort to freeze and perpetuate a particular flow of power. 
Policy is power frozen. 
Law number three: power compounds. 
Power begets more power, and so does powerlessness. 
The only thing that keeps law number three from leading to a situation where only one person has all the power is how we apply laws one and two. 
What rules do we set up so that a few people don&apos;t accumulate too much power, and so that they can&apos;t enshrine their privilege in policy? 
That&apos;s the question of democracy, and you can see each of these laws at work in any news story. 
Low wage workers organize to get higher pay. 
Oil companies push to get a big pipeline approved. 
Gay and lesbian couples seek the legal right to marry. 
Urban parents demand school vouchers. 
You may support these efforts or not. 
Whether you get what you want depends on how adept you are with power, which brings us finally to what you can do to become more powerful in public life. 
Here, it&apos;s useful to think in terms of literacy. 
Your challenge is to learn how to read power and write power. 
To read power means to pay attention to as many texts of power as you can. 
I don&apos;t mean books only. 
I mean seeing society as a set of texts. 
Don&apos;t like how things are in your campus or city or country? 
Map out who has what kind of power, arrayed in what systems. 
Understand why it turned out this way, who&apos;s made it so, and who wants to keep it so. 
Study the strategies others in such situations used: frontal attack or indirection, coalitions or charismatic authority. 
Read so you may write. 
To write power requires first that you believe you have the right to write, to be an author of change. 
You do. 
As with any kind of writing, you learn to express yourself, speak up in a voice that&apos;s authentic. 
Organize your ideas,  then organize other people. 
Practice consensus building. 
Practice conflict. 
As with writing, it&apos;s all about practice. 
Every day you have a chance to practice, in your neighborhood and beyond. 
Set objectives, then bigger ones. 
Watch the patterns, see what works. 
Adapt, repeat. 
This is citizenship. 
In this short lesson, we&apos;ve explored where civic power comes from, how it works and what you can do to exercise it. 
One big question remaining is the &quot;why&quot; of power. 
Do you want power to benefit everyone or only you? 
Are your purposes pro-social or anti-social? 
This question isn&apos;t about strategy. 
It&apos;s about character, and that&apos;s another set of lessons. 
But remember this: Power plus character equals a great citizen, and you have the power to be one.



What is bipolar disorder
What is bipolar disorder? 
The word bipolar means two extremes. 
For the many millions experiencing bipolar disorder around the world, life is split between two different realities - elation and depression. 
Although there are many variations of bipolar disorder, let&apos;s consider a couple. 
Type 1 has extreme highs alongside the lows, while Type 2 involves briefer, less extreme periods of elation interspersed with long periods of depression. 
For someone seesawing between emotional states, it can feel impossible to find the balance necessary to lead a healthy life. 
Type 1&apos;s extreme highs are known as manic episodes, and they can make a person range from feeling irritable to invincible. 
But these euphoric episodes exceed ordinary feelings of joy, causing troubling symptoms like racing thoughts, sleeplessness, rapid speech, impuslive actions, and risky behaviors. 
Without treatment, these episodes become more frequent, intense, and take longer to subside. 
The depressed phase of bipolar disorder manifests in many ways - a low mood, dwindling interest in hobbies, changes in appetite, feeling worthless or excessively guilty, sleeping either too much or too little, restlessness or slowness, or persistent thoughts of suicide. 
Worldwide, about one to three percent of adults experience the broad range of symptoms that indicate bipolar disorder. 
Most of those people are functional, contributing members of society, and their lives, choices, and relationships aren&apos;t defined by the disorder, but still, for many, the consequences are serious. 
The illness can undermine educational and professional performance, relationships, financial security, and personal safety. So what causes bipolar disorder? Researchers think a key player is  the brain&apos;s intricate wiring. Healthy brains maintain strong connections between neurons thanks to the brain&apos;s continuous efforts to prune itself and remove unused or faulty neural connections. This process is important because our  neural pathways serve as a map for everything we do. Using functional magnetic  resonance imaging, scientists have discovered that the brain&apos;s  pruning ability is disrupted in people with bipolar disorder. That means their neurons go haywire and create a network that&apos;s impossible to navigate. With only confusing signals as a guide, people with bipolar disorder develop abnormal thoughts and behaviors. Also, psychotic symptoms, like disorganized speech and behavior, delusional thoughts, paranoia, and hallucinations can emerge during extreme phases of bipolar disorder. This is attributed to the overabundance of a neurotransmitter called dopamine. But despite these insights, we can&apos;t pin bipolar disorder down to a single cause. In reality, it&apos;s a complex problem. For example, the brain&apos;s amygdala is involved in thinking, long-term memory, and emotional processing. In this brain region, factors as varied as genetics and social trauma may create abnormalities and trigger the symptoms of bipolar disorder. The condition tends to run in families, so we do know that genetics have a lot to do with it. But that doesn&apos;t mean there&apos;s a single bipolar gene. In fact, the likelihood of developing bipolar disorder is driven by the interactions between many genes in a complicated recipe we&apos;re still trying to understand. The causes are complex, and consequently, diagnosing and living with bipolar disorder is a challenge. Despite this, the disorder  is controllable. Certain medications like lithium can help manage risky thoughts and behaviors by stabilizing moods. These mood stabilizing medications work by decreasing abnormal activity in the brain, thereby strengthening the viable neural connections. Other frequently used medications include antipsychotics, which alter the effects of dopamine, and electroconvulsive therapy, which works like a carefully controlled seizure in the brain, is sometimes used as  an emergency treatment. Some bipolar patients reject treatment because they&apos;re afraid it will dim their emotions and destroy their creativity. But modern psychiatry is actively trying to avoid that. Today, doctors work with patients on a case-by-case basis to administer a combination of treatments and therapies that allows them to live  to their fullest possible potential. And beyond treatment, people with bipolar disorder can benefit from even simpler changes. Those include regular exercise, good sleep habits, and sobriety from drugs and alcohol, not to mention the acceptance and empathy of family and friends. Remember, bipolar disorder  is a medical condition, not a person&apos;s fault, or their whole identity, and it&apos;s something that can be controlled through a combination of medical  treatments doing their work internally, friends and family fostering acceptance and understanding on the outside, and people with bipolar disorder  empowering themselves to find balance in their lives.



Why it's so hard to cure HIV/AIDS
In 2008, something incredible happened: a man was cured of HIV. In over 70 million HIV cases,  that was a first and, so far, a last. We don&apos;t yet understand exactly how he was cured. We can cure people of various diseases, such as malaria and hepatitis C, so why can&apos;t we cure HIV? Well, first let&apos;s examine  how HIV infects people and progresses into AIDS. HIV spreads through  exchanges of bodily fluids. Unprotected sex and contaminated needles are the leading cause of transmission. It, fortunately, cannot spread through air, water, or casual contact. Individuals of any age, sexual orientation, gender and race can contract HIV. Once inside the body, HIV infects cells that are part of the immune system. It particularly targets helper T cells, which help defend the body against  bacterial and fungal infections. HIV is a retrovirus, which means it can write its genetic code into the genome of infected cells, co-opting them into making  more copies of itself. During the first stage of HIV infection, the virus replicates  within helper T cells, destroying many of them in the process. During this stage, patients often  experience flu-like symptoms, but are typically  not yet in mortal danger. However, for a period ranging  from a few months to several years, during which time the patient may look and feel completely healthy, the virus continues to replicate and destroy T cells. When T cell counts drop too low, patients are in serious danger of contracting deadly infections that healthy immune systems can normally handle. This stage of HIV infection is known as AIDS. The good news is there are drugs that are highly effective at managing levels of HIV and preventing T cell counts  from getting low enough for the disease to progress to AIDS. With antiretroviral therapy, most HIV-positive people can expect to live long and healthy lives, and are much less likely to infect others. However, there are two major catches. One is that HIV-positive patients  must keep taking their drugs for the rest of their lives. Without them, the virus can make  a deadly comeback. So, how do these drugs work? The most commonly prescribed ones prevent the viral genome from being copied and incorporated into a host cell&apos;s DNA. Other drugs prevent the virus from maturing or assembling, causing HIV to be unable  to infect new cells in the body. But HIV hides out somewhere our current drugs cannot reach it: inside the DNA of healthy T cells. Most T cells die shortly after  being infected with HIV. But in a tiny percentage, the instructions for building more HIV viruses lies dormant, sometimes for years. So even if we could wipe out every HIV virus from an infected person&apos;s body, one of those T cells could activate and start spreading the virus again. The other major catch is that not everyone in the world has access to the therapies that could save their lives. In Sub-Saharan Africa, which accounts for over 70% of HIV patients worldwide, antiretrovirals reached only about one in three HIV-positive patients in 2012. There is no easy answer to this problem. A mix of political, economic  and cultural barriers makes effective prevention  and treatment difficult. And even in the U.S., HIV still claims more than 10,000 lives per year. However, there is ample cause for hope. Researchers may be closer than ever to developing a true cure. One research approach involves using a drug to activate all cells  harboring the HIV genetic information. This would both destroy those cells and flush the virus out into the open, where our current drugs are effective. Another is looking to use genetic tools to cut the HIV DNA  out of cells genomes altogether. And while one cure out of 70 million cases may seem like terrible odds, one is immeasurably better than zero. We now know that a cure is possible, and that may give us what we need to beat HIV for good.



Einstein's miracle year
As 1905 dawned, the soon-to-be 26-year-old Albert Einstein faced life as a failed academic. Most physicists of the time would have scoffed at the idea that this minor civil servant could have much to contribute to science. Yet within the following year, Einstein would publish not one, not two, not three, but four extraordinary papers, each on a different topic, that were destined to radically transform our understanding of the universe. The myth that Einstein had failed math is just that. He had mastered calculus on his own by the age of 15 and done well at both his Munich secondary school and at the Swiss Polytechnic, where he studied for a math and physics teaching diploma. But skipping classes to spend more time in the lab and neglecting to show proper deference to his professors had derailed his intended career path. Passed over even for a lab assistant position, he had to settle for a job at the Swiss patent office, obtained with the help of a friend&apos;s father. Working six days a week as a patent clerk, Einstein still managed to make some time for physics, discussing the latest work with a few close friends, and publishing a couple of minor papers. It came as a major surprise when in March 1905 he submitted a paper with a shocking hypothesis. Despite decades of evidence that light was a wave, Einstein proposed that it could, in fact, be a particle, showing that mysterious phenomena, such as the photoelectric effect, could be explained by his hypothesis. The idea was derided for years to come, but Einstein was simply twenty years ahead of his time. Wave-particle duality was slated to become a cornerstone of the quantum revolution. Two months later in May, Einstein submitted a second paper, this time tackling the centuries old question of whether atoms actually exist. Though certain theories were built on the idea of invisible atoms, some prominent scientists still believed them to be a useful fiction, rather than actual physical objects. But Einstein used an ingenious argument, showing that the behavior of small particles randomly moving around in a liquid, known as Brownian motion, could be precisely predicted by the collisions of millions of invisible atoms. Experiments soon confirmed Einstein&apos;s model, and atomic skeptics threw in the towel. The third paper came in June. For a long time, Einstein had been troubled by an inconsistency between two fundamental principles of physics. The well established principle of relativity, going all the way back to Galileo, stated that absolute motion could not be defined. Yet electromagnetic theory, also well established, asserted that absolute motion did exist. The discrepancy, and his inability to resolve it, left Einstein in what he described as a state of psychic tension. But one day in May, after he had mulled over the puzzle with his friend Michele Besso, the clouds parted. Einstein realized that the contradiction could be resolved if it was the speed of light that remained constant, regardless of reference frame, while both time and space were relative to the observer. It took Einstein only a few weeks to work out the details and formulate what came to be known as special relativity. The theory not only shattered our previous understanding of reality but would also pave the way for technologies, ranging from particle accelerators, to the global positioning system. One might think that this was enough, but in September, a fourth paper arrived as a &quot;by the way&quot; follow-up to the special relativity paper. Einstein had thought a little bit more about his theory, and realized it also implied that mass and energy, one apparently solid and the other supposedly ethereal, were actually equivalent. And their relationship could be expressed in what was to become the most famous and consequential equation in history: E=mc^2. Einstein would not become a world famous icon for nearly another fifteen years. It was only after his later general theory of relativity was confirmed in 1919 by measuring the bending of starlight during a solar eclipse that the press would turn him into a celebrity. But even if he had disappeared back into the patent office and accomplished nothing else after 1905, those four papers of his miracle year would have remained the gold standard of startling unexpected genius.



The unexpected math behind Van Gogh's "Starry Night"
One of the most remarkable aspects of the human brain is its ability to recognize patterns and describe them. Among the hardest patterns we&apos;ve tried to understand is the concept of turbulent flow in fluid dynamics. The German physicist Werner Heisenberg said, &quot;When I meet God, I&apos;m going to ask him two questions: why relativity and why turbulence? I really believe he will have an answer for the first.&quot; As difficult as turbulence is to understand mathematically, we can use art to depict the way it looks. In June 1889, Vincent van Gogh painted the view just before sunrise from the window of his room at the Saint-Paul-de-Mausole asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, where he&apos;d admitted himself after mutilating his own ear in a psychotic episode. In &quot;The Starry Night,&quot; his circular brushstrokes create a night sky filled with swirling clouds and eddies of stars. Van Gogh and other Impressionists represented light in a different way than their predecessors, seeming to capture its motion, for instance, across sun-dappled waters, or here in star light that twinkles and melts through milky waves of blue night sky. The effect is caused by luminance, the intensity of the light in the colors on the canvas. The more primitive part of our visual cortex, which sees light contrast and motion, but not color, will blend two differently colored areas together if they have the same luminance. But our brains&apos; primate subdivision will see the contrasting colors without blending. With these two interpretations happening at once, the light in many Impressionist works seems to pulse, flicker and radiate oddly. That&apos;s how this and other Impressionist works use quickly executed prominent brushstrokes to capture something strikingly real about how light moves. Sixty years later, Russian mathematician Andrey Kolmogorov furthered our mathematical understanding of turbulence when he proposed that energy in a turbulent fluid at length R varies in proportion to the 5/3rds power of R. Experimental measurements show Kolmogorov was remarkably close to the way turbulent flow works, although a complete description of turbulence remains one of the unsolved problems in physics. A turbulent flow is self-similar if there is an energy cascade. In other words, big eddies transfer their energy to smaller eddies, which do likewise at other scales. Examples of this include Jupiter&apos;s Great Red Spot, cloud formations and interstellar dust particles. In 2004, using the Hubble Space Telescope, scientists saw the eddies of a distant cloud of dust and gas around a star, and it reminded them of Van Gogh&apos;s &quot;Starry Night.&quot; This motivated scientists from Mexico, Spain and England to study the luminance in Van Gogh&apos;s paintings in detail. They discovered that there is a distinct pattern of turbulent fluid structures close to Kolmogorov&apos;s equation hidden in many of Van Gogh&apos;s paintings. The researchers digitized the paintings, and measured how brightness varies between any two pixels. From the curves measured for pixel separations, they concluded that paintings from Van Gogh&apos;s period of psychotic agitation behave remarkably similar to fluid turbulence. His self-portrait with a pipe, from a calmer period in Van Gogh&apos;s life, showed no sign of this correspondence. And neither did other artists&apos; work that seemed equally turbulent at first glance, like Munch&apos;s &quot;The Scream.&quot; While it&apos;s too easy to say Van Gogh&apos;s turbulent genius enabled him to depict turbulence, it&apos;s also far too difficult to accurately express the rousing beauty of the fact that in a period of intense suffering, Van Gogh was somehow able to perceive and represent one of the most supremely difficult concepts nature has ever brought before mankind, and to unite his unique mind&apos;s eye with the deepest mysteries of movement, fluid and light.



What makes a hero?
Qu&apos;est-ce que Harry Potter, Katniss Everdeen, et Frodon ont en commun avec les héros des mythes anciens ? Et si je vous dis qu&apos;ils sont tous  des variantes du même héros ? Vous le croirez ? Joseph Cambpell , oui. Il a étudié les mythes du monde entier et il a publié un livre intitulé, &quot;Le héros aux mille visages&quot; qui reformule des dizaines d&apos;histoires et explique comment chacune présente  le mythe unique, ou le périple du héros. Alors qu&apos;est-ce que &quot;le périple du héros&quot; ? Imaginez-le comme un cycle. Le voyage commence et se termine dans le monde ordinaire d&apos;un héros, mais la quête traverse  un monde particulier et inconnu. Tout au long du chemin, il y a des évènements-clés. Pensez à votre livre ou film préféré. Est-ce qu&apos;il suit ce modèle ? Le statu quo, c&apos;est ici que l&apos;on commence. 1:00 : L&apos;appel de l&apos;aventure. Le héros reçoit un message mystérieux, une invitation, un défi. 2:00 : L&apos;aide Le héros a besoin d&apos;aide, probablement de la part de quelqu&apos;un  de plus vieux ou plus sage. 3:00 : Le départ Le héros sort de sa vie normale, sûre, et pénètre dans un monde et une aventure spéciaux. On est en territoire inconnu. 4:00 : Les épreuves Etre un héros est difficile : notre héros résoud une énigme, tue un monstre, échappe à un piège. 5:00 : L&apos;approche Il est temps d&apos;affronter la plus grande épreuve, la pire des peurs du héros. 6:00 : Le moment critique C&apos;est l&apos;heure la plus sombre du héros. Il est face à la mort et peut même mourrir pour mieux renaitre. 7:00 : Le trésor Au final, le héros revendique un trésor quelconque, une reconnaissance ou un pouvoir particluler. 8:00 : Le résultat Il peut varier d&apos;une histoire à l&apos;autre. Les monstres s&apos;inclinent-ils devant le héros, ou le poursuivent-ils pendant qu&apos;il fuit ce monde particulier ? 9:00 : Le retour Après toute cette aventure, le héros rentre  retrouver son monde ordinair.; 10:00 La nouvelle vie Cette quête a changé le héros ; il a dépassé son ancienne vie. 11:00 : La résolution L&apos;intrigue se démêle. 12:00 : Le statu quo, mais en passant au niveau supérieur. Rien n&apos;est tout à faire pareil  une fois que vous êtes un héros. De nombreux livres et films populaires suivent scrupuleusement cette ancienne formule. Mais voyons à quel point &quot;Hunger Games&quot;  correspond à ce modèle du périple du héros. A quel moment Katniss Everdeen  entend-elle l&apos;appel de l&apos;aventure qui lance l&apos;histoire ? Quand on annonce le nom de sa soeur  tiré à la loterie, Et l&apos;assistance ? Quelqu&apos;un va-t-il l&apos;aider dans son aventure ? Haymitch. Et le départ ? Est-ce qu&apos;elle quitte son monde ordinaire ? Elle prend un train pour aller à la capitale. Vous avez compris l&apos;idée. Qu&apos;avez-vous en commun avec Harry Potter, Katniss Everdeen, et Frodon ? Eh bien, vous êtes humain, tout comme eux. Le mythe du périple du héros existe  dans toutes les cultures et continue d&apos;être actualisé car nous, les humains,  nous réfléchissons à notre monde à travers des histoires  qui symbolisent nos propres vies. Vous quittez votre zone de confort, vous vivez quelque chose qui vous transforme, puis vous vous en remettez et vous recommencez. Vous ne tuez pas littéralement des dragons, vous ne vous battez pas avec Voldemort, mais vous affrontez des problèmes  tout aussi effrayants. Joseph Campbell a dit, &quot;dans la grotte où vous craignez d&apos;entrer  se trouve le trésor que vous recherchez.&quot; Quelle est la grotte symbolique  où vous craignez d&apos;entrer , Les auditions pour la pièce de théâtre de l&apos;école, les sélections pour le baseball ? L&apos;amour ? Cherchez bien cette formule dans les livres,  les films, les séries télé que vous rencontrez. Vous la retrouverez certainement. Mais cherchez-la aussi dans votre propre vie. Ecoutez votre appel de l&apos;aventure. Acceptez le défi. Surmontez votre peur et réclamez le trésor que vous cherchez. Et puis, recommencez.



The science of stage fright (and how to overcome it)
Palms sweaty, heart racing, stomach in knots. You can&apos;t cry for help. Not only is your throat too tight to breathe, but it&apos;d be so embarrassing. No, you aren&apos;t being stalked by a monster, you&apos;re speaking in public, a fate some deem worse than death. See, when you&apos;re dead, you feel nothing; at a podium, you feel stage fright. But at some point we&apos;ve all had to communicate in front of people, so you have to try and overcome it. To start, understand what stage fright is. Humans, social animals that we are, are wired to worry about reputation. Public speaking can threaten it. Before a speech, you fret, &quot;What if people think I&apos;m awful and I&apos;m an idiot?&quot; That fear of being seen as an awful idiot is a threat reaction from a primitive part of your brain that&apos;s very hard to control. It&apos;s the fight or flight response, a self-protective process seen in a range of animals, most of which don&apos;t give speeches. But we have a wise partner in the study of freaking out. Charles Darwin tested fight or flight at the London Zoo snake exhibit. He wrote in his diary, &quot;My will and reason were powerless against the imagination of a danger which had never been experienced.&quot; He concluded that his response was an ancient reaction unaffected by the nuances of modern civilization. So, to your conscious modern mind, it&apos;s a speech. To the rest of your brain, built up to code with the law of the jungle, when you perceive the possible consequences of blowing a speech, it&apos;s time to run for your life or fight to the death. Your hypothalamus, common to all vertebrates, triggers your pituitary gland to secrete the hormone ACTH, making your adrenal gland shoot adrenaline into your blood. Your neck and back tense up, you slouch. Your legs and hand shake as your muscles prepare for attack. You sweat. Your blood pressure jumps. Your digestion shuts down to maximize the delivery of nutrients and oxygen to muscles and vital organs, so you get dry mouth, butterflies. Your pupils dilate, it&apos;s hard to read anything up close, like your notes, but long range is easy. That&apos;s how stage fright works. How do we fight it? First, perspective. This isn&apos;t all in your head. It&apos;s a natural, hormonal, full body reaction by an autonomic nervous system on autopilot. And genetics play a huge role in social anxiety. John Lennon played live thousands of times. Each time he vomited beforehand. Some people are just wired to feel more scared performing in public. Since stage fright is natural and inevitable, focus on what you can control. Practice a lot, starting long before in an environment similar to the real performance. Practicing any task increases your familiarity and reduces anxiety, so when it&apos;s time to speak in public, you&apos;re confident in yourself and the task at hand. Steve Jobs rehearsed his epic speeches for hundreds of hours, starting weeks in advance. If you know what you&apos;re saying, you&apos;ll feed off the crowd&apos;s energy instead of letting your hypothalamus convince your body it&apos;s about to be lunch for a pack of predators. But hey, the vertebrate hypothalamus has had millions of years more practice than you. Just before you go on stage, it&apos;s time to fight dirty and trick your brain. Stretch your arms up and breath deeply. This makes your hypothalamus trigger a relaxation response. Stage fright usually hits hardest right before a presentation, so take that last minute to stretch and breathe. You approach the Mic, voice clear, body relaxed. Your well-prepared speech convinces the wild crowd you&apos;re a charismatic genius. How? You didn&apos;t overcome stage fright, you adapted to it. And to the fact that no matter how civilized you may seem, in part of your brain, you&apos;re still a wild animal, a profound, well-spoken wild animal.